in this video let us learn how to implement the
01 knapsack problem
Using dynamic programme first let us write the function
knapsack By passing the knapsack capacity C weight array
Wt value array val and number of items n
And now declare the iterating variables
I and W now declare it two dimensional array to
store the sub
Problem results So write dp of n plus one C
plus one
Here the row n is the number of items and
column C is the capacity of knapsack We have put
plus one on both the variable because
We are including zero valued items and zero knapsack
capacity for calculating the result
So we have created an extra one column and row
now to iterate the items
Let us write an outer for loop write for i equal
to 0 to i less than or equal to n and to
iterate the knapsack capacity
Let us write the inner for loop Let us keep
the iterating variable as w so write w equal
to 0 to w less than or equal to C when
knapsack capacity is zero or item with zero weight is the
maximum profit we can make is zero
So we need to fill the first row and first
column as zero
So write If I equal to zero or w equal
to zero dp of iw equal to zero else if
the capacity of knapsack is greater than or equal
to the weight of the item we can pick the
item
And if we picked the item what will be
the maximum profit we get That is the max of
the profit we get
If we picked the item and the profit we get
If we don't pick the item first let us write
the values for picking the item
If we picked the item we will get the corresponding
value plus the profit we make with the remaining knapsack
capacity we can get the value from the value
array that is Val of I minus one
We need to add the profit for remaining knapsack
capacity as we know we can get the profit of
remaining knapsack by moving one
row up and subtract current weight from the knapsack capacity
to move one
row up write dp of I minus one and to
subtract current weight from knapsack capacity write Index of
w minus weight of I minus one
So using DP of I minus one w minus weight
of I minus one
We can get the profit of the remaining knapsack
capacity
We need to add this to Val of I minus
one
So if we picked the item the profit we can
make is Val of I minus one plus dp of
I minus one w minus weight of i minus one
If we don't pick the item the maximum profit we
can make is this element
We can get it using dp of I minus one
w So if w of I minus one is less than
or equal to w we need to write dp
of iw equal to Max of Val of I
minus one plus dp of I minus one w minus
weight of i minus one coma dp of I minus
one w Lastly if the capacity of knapsack is lesser
than the weight of the item we cannot pick the
item
So maximum profit We can make is dp of i
minus one w That is the profit from the above cell
So write else dp of iw equal to DP
of i minus one w
This logic will compute the result of all these sub
problems and the final result will be stored at the
last index of the second array
So finally return dp of NC and that's it
We have implemented 01 knapsack problem using dynamic programming approach.